the US Secretary of State is in Tel Aviv
where he's expected to discuss the terms
of that potential Israel Hamas deal he's
just been in Doha where the Prime
Minister said Hamas has given a positive
response to the
proposal okay well let's look into uh
this proposal in more detail now with
Hussein haridi who joins us from Cairo
so he's the former Egyptian assistant
foreign minister and field artillery
officer in the October
1973 War thank you for your time for
joining us here on aler so so from
everything you've seen and heard so far
around this proposed framework how
confident are you that we're moving
towards something resembling a lasting
agreement well um maybe it's a bit early
to uh expect a final agreement uh soon
uh the United States Secret State Mr
Anthony blinkin is is Israel today
holding talks with the uh Israeli Prime
Minister with the Israeli president and
maybe with the members of the military
cabinet in in Israel in order to discuss
the uh proposal by uh Hamas that was
handed in yesterday to the CES and the
Egyptians uh the uh as you said the
initial C reaction to the Hamas proposal
was was was was positive to a certain
extent and I I believe that secretary
blinkin would would would would try to
work something out today with the
Israelis uh let's hope that after uh the
talks in Israel are over something more
concrete would come out and we can we
can that would enable us to see more
clearly ahead but definitely uh
something certain now that the United
States Administration is Keen
for humanitarian Po in in Gaza as soon
as possible right so so in your view
there is a degree of momentum but we
need to to wait and see how Israel
obviously comes back on this let's talk
about the negotiation process if we may
because that's been done as you say
through mediators Egypt Qatar and the US
in the absence of facetoface talks
between Hass Representatives and Israeli
Representatives how effective a process
do you think this has been given that of
course it's taken a week from the Paris
talks to reach this
point well concerning the the last point
that you you have
rer
uh the the the explanation is that uh
once the Hamas political leadership the
political Bureau of Hamas received the
uh proposal uh the draft proposal uh
that came out of the uh meeting between
the CIA director the director of the
Egyptian intelligence the mosad director
and the K prime minister and Minister of
Foreign Affairs in Europe two weeks ago
the explanation is that the Hamas
political Bureau had of course to uh
forward the the draft proposal to What's
called the military uh commanders of
Hamas in the field uh that is to say in
Gaza and to coordinate with other
Palestinian Palestinian resistance
movements namely Al Jihad Islamic Jihad
so it took it took some time and this is
why why why why the the reply by Hamas
people almost took one week but having
said that having said that I guess uh
this is the uh the we have succeeded
last November in
negotiating a POS in the fight in in
Gaza that lasted one week and I guess
the the same mechanism would would prove
so it's so it's a mechanism it's a
mechanism that has proven to have worked
in the past the assumption is that it
can potentially work again regarding the
deal itself it envisages three phrases
45 days each what are the benefits of
this phase
framework well so so far we have the
Hamas proposal uh so I'll discuss it
I'll answer your question in this
context um Hamas in its counter proposal
came came up with is maximalist
position uh we we are waiting for the
Israel
reply to the Hamas counter proposal but
I I presume that the
Israelis would try to water down uh some
some uh elements in the Hamas counter
proposal H we don't expect we don't
expect that Israel would say yes to
everything that uh we
have let me let me let me underline here
that uh we don't have an official copy
of the Hamas counter proposal but
according to press reports we have an
idea uh we have details of of of of this
counter proposal so I don't expect that
the Israelis will say yes to every
element that according to press report
today uh elements that were contained in
the uh the Hamas reply so u i I believe
that
uh we we we at the end of the day we can
we we can but the the negotiators the
mediators can reach a compromise a
compromise deal all right but as you
suggest a degree of push back is almost
inevitable when it comes to negotiations
on this level Hussein haridi former
Egyptian assistant foreign minister and
field artillery officer many thanks for
your time for joining us on aler thank
you it's my pleasure
sir